

AtlasOS VFS Builder 
by Gower

Version: Murky

Use at own risk, absolutely no warranty provided.


----- Introduction -----

The virtual file system (VFS) allows you to pre-load AtlasOS with files, at
least until real storage becomes widely available for DCPU-16 emulators.

VFS Builder is a quick way to create the VFS (which is basically an assembly
file which is included alongside the kernel) by looking at a given directory
and indexing the files and subdirectories in it, then looking at each file in
turn and creating the assembly code equivalent (i.e. a lot of dats and hex).

Python is required to use this script (tested on 3.0, although should work on
earlier versions to).


----- Usage -----

python utilities/vfsbuilder/vfsbuilder.py
Options:
	-a, --atlas:	Define the AtlasOS directory
	-r, --root:	Define the directory to convert to the VFS

By default, VFS Builder assumes that it is being executed from the AtlasOS
directory will look to compile for the directory misc/vfs. If this is not the
case the above options will need to be used.

By default, all files will be readable and writable from within AtlasOS. To
change this, you can specify flags in the file name. For example:
	'--re.myfile.bin'
This is a file that is readable ('r') and executable ('e'). The flags you can
specify are:
	'r' - read
	'w' - write
	'h' - hidden
	'e' - executable
	'd' - directory
You can specify any of these in any combination, although the behaviour of an
executable directory that you can write to but not read from is suitably
undocumented.

You don't need to specify a directory flag for a directory -- all directories
are automatically added to the VFS as directories. In fact, you can't add any
flags to directories.


----- Using VFS Builder as a Library -----

If you wish to hack the VFS, you may find it useful to use VFS Builder as a
Python library. The classes and methods are somewhat general and relatively
well documented. The main function can be used as a good example of how to use
them.


